README.md, before:

# Serverless Lerna + Yarn Workspaces Monorepo Starter

A Serverless monorepo starter that uses [Lerna](https://lerna.js.org) and [Yarn Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/).

- Designed to scale for larger projects
- Maintains internal dependencies as packages
- Uses Lerna to figure out which services have been updated 
- Supports publishing dependencies as private NPM packages
- Uses [serverless-bundle](https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-bundle) to generate optimized Lambda packages
- Uses Yarn Workspaces to hoist packages to the root `node_modules/` directory

-----

## Installation

To create a new Serverless project

``` bash
$ git clone https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-lerna-yarn-starter my-project
```

Enter the new directory

``` bash
$ cd my-project
```

Install NPM packages for the entire project

``` bash
$ yarn
```

## How It Works

The directory structure roughly looks like:

```
package.json
/libs
/packages
  /sample-package
    index.js
    package.json
/services
  /service1
    handler.js
    package.json
    serverless.yml
  /service2
    handler.js
    package.json
    serverless.yml
```

This repo is split into 3 directories. Each with a different purpose:

- packages

  These are internal packages that are used in our services. Each contains a `package.json` and can be optionally published to NPM. Any changes to a package should only deploy the service that depends on it.

- services

  These are Serverless services that are deployed. Has a `package.json` and `serverless.yml`. There are two sample services.

  1. `service1`: Depends on the `sample-package`. This means that if it changes, we want to deploy `service1`.
  2. `service2`: Does not depend on any internal packages.

  More on deployments below.

- libs

  Any common code that you might not want to maintain as a package. Does NOT have a `package.json`. Any changes here should redeploy all our services.

The `packages/` and `services/` directories are Yarn Workspaces.

### Services

The Serverless services are meant to be managed on their own. Each service is based on our [Serverless Node.js Starter](https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-nodejs-starter). It uses the [serverless-bundle](https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-bundle) plugin (based on [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org)) to create optimized Lambda packages.

This is good for keeping your Lambda packages small. But it also ensures that you can have Yarn hoist all your NPM packages to the project root. Without Webpack, you'll need to disable hoisting since Serverless Framework does not package the dependencies of a service correctly on its own.

Install an NPM package inside a service.

``` bash
$ yarn add some-npm-package
```

Run a function locally.

``` bash
$ serverless invoke local -f get
```

Run tests in a service.

``` bash
$ yarn test
```

Deploy the service.

``` bash
$ serverless deploy
```

Deploy a single function.

``` bash
$ serverless deploy function -f get
```

To add a new service.

``` bash
$ cd services/
$ serverless install --url https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-nodejs-starter --name new-service
$ cd new-service
$ yarn
```

### Packages

Since each package has its own `package.json`, you can manage it just like you would any other NPM package.

To add a new package.

``` bash
$ mkdir packages/new-package
$ yarn init
```

Packages can also be optionally published to NPM.

### Libs

If you need to add any other common code in your repo that won't be maintained as a package, add it to the `libs/` directory. It does not contain a `package.json`. This means that you'll need to install any NPM packages as dependencies in the root.

To install an NPM package at the root.

``` bash
$ yarn add -W some-npm-package
```

## Deployment

We want to ensure that only the services that have been updated get deployed. This means that, if a change is made to:

- services

  Only the service that has been changed should be deployed. For ex, if you change any code in `service1`, then `service2` should not be deployed.

- packages

  If a package is changed, then only the service that depends on this package should be deployed. For ex, if `sample-package` is changed, then `service1` should be deployed.

- libs

  If any of the libs are changed, then all services will get deployed.

### Deployment Algorithm

To implement the above, use the following algorithm in your CI:

1. Run `lerna ls --since ${prevCommitSHA} -all` to list all packages that have changed since the last successful deployment. If this list includes one of the services, then deploy it.
2. Run `git diff --name-only ${prevCommitSHA} ${currentCommitSHA}` to get a list of all the updated files. If they don't belong to any of your Lerna packages (`lerna ls -all`), deploy all the services.
3. Otherwise skip the deployment.


## Deploying Through Seed

[Seed](https://seed.run) supports deploying Serverless monorepo projects that use Lerna and Yarn Workspaces. To enable it, add the following to the `seed.yml` in your repo root:

``` yaml
check_code_change: lerna
```

To test this:

**Add the App**

1. Fork this repo and add it to [your Seed account](https://console.seed.run).
2. Add both of the services.
3. Deploy your app once.

**Update a Service**

- Make a change in `services/service2/handler.js` and git push.
- Notice that `service2` has been deployed while `service1` was skipped.

**Update a Package**

- Make a change in `packages/sample-package/index.js` and git push.
- Notice that `service1` should be deployed while `service2` will have been skipped.

**Update a Lib**

- Finally, make a change in `libs/index.js` and git push.
- Both `service1` and `service2` should've been deployed.

-------

This repo is maintained by [Anomaly Innovations](https://anoma.ly/); makers of [Seed](https://seed.run/) and [Serverless Stack](https://serverless-stack.com/).

Commit message:

Documenting usage of packages
To save time and simplify the repo's existing tooling for future developers and beginners like me.

Changes inspired by [this blog](https://doppelmutzi.github.io/monorepo-lerna-yarn-workspaces/#yarn-workspaces),

> With the following command, I add one of my own packages ("awesome-components") to another package ("awesome-app") as dependency.
>
> I found out that adding local packages should be done <ins>by specifying a version number, otherwise yarn tries to find the dependency in the registry.</ins>
>
> `$ yarn workspace @doppelmutzi/awesome-app add @doppelmutzi/awesome-components@0.1.0 -D`

README.md, after:

# Serverless Lerna + Yarn Workspaces Monorepo Starter

A Serverless monorepo starter that uses [Lerna](https://lerna.js.org) and [Yarn Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/).

- Designed to scale for larger projects
- Maintains internal dependencies as packages
- Uses Lerna to figure out which services have been updated 
- Supports publishing dependencies as private NPM packages
- Uses [serverless-bundle](https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-bundle) to generate optimized Lambda packages
- Uses Yarn Workspaces to hoist packages to the root `node_modules/` directory

-----

## Installation

To create a new Serverless project

``` bash
$ git clone https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-lerna-yarn-starter my-project
```

Enter the new directory

``` bash
$ cd my-project
```

Install NPM packages for the entire project

``` bash
$ yarn
```

## How It Works

The directory structure roughly looks like:

```
package.json
/libs
/packages
  /sample-package
    index.js
    package.json
/services
  /service1
    handler.js
    package.json
    serverless.yml
  /service2
    handler.js
    package.json
    serverless.yml
```

This repo is split into 3 directories. Each with a different purpose:

- packages

  These are internal packages that are used in our services. Each contains a `package.json` and can be optionally published to NPM. Any changes to a package should only deploy the service that depends on it.

- services

  These are Serverless services that are deployed. Has a `package.json` and `serverless.yml`. There are two sample services.

  1. `service1`: Depends on the `sample-package`. This means that if it changes, we want to deploy `service1`.
  2. `service2`: Does not depend on any internal packages.

  More on deployments below.

- libs

  Any common code that you might not want to maintain as a package. Does NOT have a `package.json`. Any changes here should redeploy all our services.

The `packages/` and `services/` directories are Yarn Workspaces.

### Services

The Serverless services are meant to be managed on their own. Each service is based on our [Serverless Node.js Starter](https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-nodejs-starter). It uses the [serverless-bundle](https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-bundle) plugin (based on [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org)) to create optimized Lambda packages.

This is good for keeping your Lambda packages small. But it also ensures that you can have Yarn hoist all your NPM packages to the project root. Without Webpack, you'll need to disable hoisting since Serverless Framework does not package the dependencies of a service correctly on its own.

Install an NPM package inside a service.

``` bash
$ yarn add some-npm-package
```

Run a function locally.

``` bash
$ serverless invoke local -f get
```

Run tests in a service.

``` bash
$ yarn test
```

Deploy the service.

``` bash
$ serverless deploy
```

Deploy a single function.

``` bash
$ serverless deploy function -f get
```

To add a new service.

``` bash
$ cd services/
$ serverless install --url https://github.com/AnomalyInnovations/serverless-nodejs-starter --name new-service
$ cd new-service
$ yarn
```

### Packages

Since each package has its own `package.json`, you can manage it just like you would any other NPM package.

To add a new package:

``` bash
$ mkdir packages/new-package
$ yarn init
```

Packages can also be optionally published to NPM.

To use a package:

```bash
$ yarn add new-package@1.0.0
```

Note that packages should be added by specifying the version number declared in their `package.json`. Otherwise, yarn tries to find the dependency in the registry.

### Libs

If you need to add any other common code in your repo that won't be maintained as a package, add it to the `libs/` directory. It does not contain a `package.json`. This means that you'll need to install any NPM packages as dependencies in the root.

To install an NPM package at the root.

``` bash
$ yarn add -W some-npm-package
```

## Deployment

We want to ensure that only the services that have been updated get deployed. This means that, if a change is made to:

- services

  Only the service that has been changed should be deployed. For ex, if you change any code in `service1`, then `service2` should not be deployed.

- packages

  If a package is changed, then only the service that depends on this package should be deployed. For ex, if `sample-package` is changed, then `service1` should be deployed.

- libs

  If any of the libs are changed, then all services will get deployed.

### Deployment Algorithm

To implement the above, use the following algorithm in your CI:

1. Run `lerna ls --since ${prevCommitSHA} -all` to list all packages that have changed since the last successful deployment. If this list includes one of the services, then deploy it.
2. Run `git diff --name-only ${prevCommitSHA} ${currentCommitSHA}` to get a list of all the updated files. If they don't belong to any of your Lerna packages (`lerna ls -all`), deploy all the services.
3. Otherwise skip the deployment.


## Deploying Through Seed

[Seed](https://seed.run) supports deploying Serverless monorepo projects that use Lerna and Yarn Workspaces. To enable it, add the following to the `seed.yml` in your repo root:

``` yaml
check_code_change: lerna
```

To test this:

**Add the App**

1. Fork this repo and add it to [your Seed account](https://console.seed.run).
2. Add both of the services.
3. Deploy your app once.

**Update a Service**

- Make a change in `services/service2/handler.js` and git push.
- Notice that `service2` has been deployed while `service1` was skipped.

**Update a Package**

- Make a change in `packages/sample-package/index.js` and git push.
- Notice that `service1` should be deployed while `service2` will have been skipped.

**Update a Lib**

- Finally, make a change in `libs/index.js` and git push.
- Both `service1` and `service2` should've been deployed.

-------

This repo is maintained by [Anomaly Innovations](https://anoma.ly/); makers of [Seed](https://seed.run/) and [Serverless Stack](https://serverless-stack.com/).
